wine is a mocker strong drink is a
wine is a mocker strong drink is a brawler and whoever is that astray by it
brawler and whoever is that astray by it
brawler and whoever is that astray by it is not wise the wrath of a king is like
is not wise the wrath of a king is like
is not wise the wrath of a king is like the roaring of a lion
the roaring of a lion
the roaring of a lion whoever provokes him to anger sins
whoever provokes him to anger sins
whoever provokes him to anger sins against his life it is honorable for a
against his life it is honorable for a
against his life it is honorable for a man to stop striving since any fool can
man to stop striving since any fool can
man to stop striving since any fool can start a quarrel the lazy man will not
start a quarrel the lazy man will not
start a quarrel the lazy man will not plow because of winter he will beg
plow because of winter he will beg
plow because of winter he will beg during harvest and have nothing counsel
during harvest and have nothing counsel
during harvest and have nothing counsel in the heart of man is like deep water
in the heart of man is like deep water
in the heart of man is like deep water but a man of understanding will draw it
but a man of understanding will draw it
but a man of understanding will draw it out most men will proclaim each his own
out most men will proclaim each his own
out most men will proclaim each his own goodness
goodness
goodness but who can find a faithful man the
but who can find a faithful man the
but who can find a faithful man the righteous man walks in his integrity his
righteous man walks in his integrity his
righteous man walks in his integrity his children are blessed after him a king
children are blessed after him a king
children are blessed after him a king who sits on the throne of judgment
who sits on the throne of judgment
who sits on the throne of judgment scatters all evil with his eyes who can
scatters all evil with his eyes who can
scatters all evil with his eyes who can say I have made my heart clean I am pure
say I have made my heart clean I am pure
say I have made my heart clean I am pure from my sin diverse weights and diverse
from my sin diverse weights and diverse
from my sin diverse weights and diverse measures they are both alike an
measures they are both alike an
measures they are both alike an abomination to the Lord even a child is
abomination to the Lord even a child is
abomination to the Lord even a child is known by his deeds whether what he does
known by his deeds whether what he does
known by his deeds whether what he does is pure andhrite the hearing ear and the
is pure andhrite the hearing ear and the
is pure andhrite the hearing ear and the seeing eye the Lord has made them both
seeing eye the Lord has made them both
seeing eye the Lord has made them both do not love sleep less you come to
do not love sleep less you come to
do not love sleep less you come to poverty open your eyes and you will be
poverty open your eyes and you will be
poverty open your eyes and you will be satisfied with bread it is good for
satisfied with bread it is good for
satisfied with bread it is good for nothing cries the buyer but when he has
nothing cries the buyer but when he has
nothing cries the buyer but when he has gone his way then he boasts there is
gone his way then he boasts there is
gone his way then he boasts there is gold and a multitude of rubies but the
gold and a multitude of rubies but the
gold and a multitude of rubies but the lips of knowledge are a precious jewel
lips of knowledge are a precious jewel
lips of knowledge are a precious jewel take the garment of one who is surety
take the garment of one who is surety
take the garment of one who is surety for a stranger and hold it as a pledge
for a stranger and hold it as a pledge
for a stranger and hold it as a pledge when it is for a seductress bread gained
when it is for a seductress bread gained
when it is for a seductress bread gained by deceit is sweet to a man but
by deceit is sweet to a man but
by deceit is sweet to a man but afterward his mouth will be filled with
afterward his mouth will be filled with
afterward his mouth will be filled with gravel plans are established by counsel
gravel plans are established by counsel
gravel plans are established by counsel but wise counsel wage war he who goes
but wise counsel wage war he who goes
but wise counsel wage war he who goes about as a tail bearer reveal secrets
about as a tail bearer reveal secrets
about as a tail bearer reveal secrets therefore do not associate with one who
therefore do not associate with one who
therefore do not associate with one who flatters with his lips whoever curses
flatters with his lips whoever curses
flatters with his lips whoever curses his father or his mother his lamp will
his father or his mother his lamp will
his father or his mother his lamp will be put out in deep darkness an
be put out in deep darkness an
be put out in deep darkness an inheritance gained hastily at the
inheritance gained hastily at the
inheritance gained hastily at the beginning will not be blessed at the end
beginning will not be blessed at the end
beginning will not be blessed at the end do not say I will recompense evil wait
do not say I will recompense evil wait
do not say I will recompense evil wait for the Lord and He will save you
for the Lord and He will save you
for the Lord and He will save you diverse weights are an abomination to
diverse weights are an abomination to
diverse weights are an abomination to the Lord and dishonest scales are not
the Lord and dishonest scales are not
the Lord and dishonest scales are not good a man steps are of the law
good a man steps are of the law
good a man steps are of the law how then can a man understand his own
how then can a man understand his own
how then can a man understand his own way it is a snare for a man to devote
way it is a snare for a man to devote
way it is a snare for a man to devote rashly something as holy and afterward
rashly something as holy and afterward
rashly something as holy and afterward to reconsider his vows a wise King
to reconsider his vows a wise King
to reconsider his vows a wise King sifts out the wicked and brings the
sifts out the wicked and brings the
sifts out the wicked and brings the threshing wheel over them the spirit of
threshing wheel over them the spirit of
threshing wheel over them the spirit of a man is the lamp of the Lord searching
a man is the lamp of the Lord searching
a man is the lamp of the Lord searching all the inner depths of his heart mercy
all the inner depths of his heart mercy
all the inner depths of his heart mercy and truth preserved the king and by
and truth preserved the king and by
and truth preserved the king and by loving-kindness he upholds his throne
loving-kindness he upholds his throne
loving-kindness he upholds his throne the glory of young men is their strength
the glory of young men is their strength
the glory of young men is their strength and the splendor of old men is their
and the splendor of old men is their
and the splendor of old men is their gray head blows that hurt cleanse away
gray head blows that hurt cleanse away
gray head blows that hurt cleanse away evil as to stripes the inner depths of
evil as to stripes the inner depths of
evil as to stripes the inner depths of the heart